The thesis "The physics of the extended narrow-line region in active galactic nuclei" 
submitted by E. Congiu, represent a remarkable research work in the field of extended 
structures in case of active galactic nuclei (AGN), seen both in the optical and radio 
emission. The thesis reports new and important insights and results in this field, 
together with some great new discoveries, i.e. the largest extended narrow line region 
seen in a nearby type 1 AGN Mrk 783. The student has shown an excellent knowledge of the
field, which can be seen from very detailed Introduction, and moreover has shown a 
great level of expertise in the reduction and analysis of the optical data, both spectral 
and photometric, as well as radio observation, which is a unique and remarkable quality. 
In addition, the results are interpreted and discussed in a correct way, clearly connected 
with previous research reported in the literature.  
Therefore, I can recommend the thesis to be accepted by the thesis committee, and that 
the candidate can be admitted to the final examination. 

Below I suggest some very minor revisions, to be considered by the author, that can 
hopefully help and improve even more the submitted thesis (in order as they appear in
the text, not in the order of importance):

1) There are several typos and grammar mistakes (e.g. incorrect usage of verbs), please 
run again the spelling check, and try to read carefully the whole text.

- checked 

2) The formatting of writing ions is not uniform, e.g. [O III] and [N II] have to be always
written in roman style (not italic), this applies for the text but formula as well
(see e.g. page 49 or caption of Figs. 3.6 an 3.7, etc). 

-Questo ho corretto le cose principali. Da vedere bene tutto il testo per vedere se sono sfuggite cose.

3) The same applies for units, which is especially seen in Chapter 4 (e.g. luminosity units),
as well as for abbreviations written in the subscript, e.g. page 68 L_{\rm bol}.

- idem come sopra

4) The concluding sections in all chapter should be called the same, I suggest "Concluding 
remarks", as introduced in Chapter 3. 

-done

5) The Figures 3.1 and 3.2, especially their right panels showing the regions, are very 
important, so I suggest to make them larger, at least the right panel should be plot 
separately, with maybe scale of e.g. 1" shown as in left and middle panel.

- done

6) Table 3.3. is not clear, i.e. what the parameter Delta_E, described as "energy existence
interval" significate? Also, this is not the same Delta_E as in Eq.3.2-3.5, right? If so, 
other notation should be used in Table 3.3. 

- done

7) In Figure 3.7 the color bars show velocity, while in the caption it is written that it
is the distance from the nucleus, please correct. 


8) In addition, it is not described in both Figure 3.6 what what are triangles plotted in all panels?

- done 

9) The error-bars should be explained in both Figures 3.6 and 3.7. 

- done

10) Section 3.4.4.2 describes the kinematics from line profiles of NGC 7212. It seems that
there are two distinct kinematic components, seen clearly at least in the CN and CS regions,
but also as bumps and asymmetries in other regions, similar as in IC 5063. Please comment
on this.



11) Section 3.4.5.1 describes how the input parameters are being calculated, but it is not
clear enough and confuses the reader, e.g.is the ionizing flux F calculated from the
ionization parameter, which is obtained from the line ratios, and does it contain the primary
ionization component or also the secondary? How the thickness D is calculated, or dust to gas
ratio (is it constant?), or F(Hbeta)? etc. Please go through this section and revise it.

12) The Figure 3.14 which shows the SED of IC 5063 and NGC 7212 is not clearly described in
the text nor in the caption. It is very confusing what each line is showing. I suggest
that all 4 components are separated and numbered: 1. AGN, 2a. galaxy stars and 2b. galaxy dust, 
3a. gas clouds emitting bremstr. and 3b. dust clouds emitting as black body (3 cases with
different physical properties), and finally 4. synchrotron. In addition, it would be useful
to see the best total SED, i.e. showing the sum of all best-fitting components.

13) On page 62, tables C1-C32 are reported to be listed in the Appendix, but these are not
present in the thesis. Please add them.

- fatto

14) On page 68, define value of index alpha makes a source flat or steep radio source. 

- done

15) In Table 5.1 the column with slit size should be added

-done 

16) in Table 5.2 the date of (even though NLSy1 are not strongly variable, they may vary)

- done

17) and in Table 5.3 a column with z is reported but not shown.

- done

18)  Page 79, there is a typo in RA coordinate of Mrk 783, should be 02 not 03.

- done

19) Also, I to mark the position of the reported center of the galaxy with the plus sign +,
in all images, but especially in Figures 5.5 and 5.6.


20) Figure 5.1 is very important, I suggest to make it bigger with all 4 slit positions
being plotted. If I understood well, the two PA=131 positions were slightly moved with
respect to each other, as suggested by Figure 5.2 panel a and b.

21) Figure 5.10 is important as it clearly shows that the contribution of the host galaxy
is not so important (e.g. the absorption lines are not so clear, and the blue part
is higher then the red). I suggest to move this Figure before 5.9 and comment it on
page 90, when you comment on the starlight contribution.

- done

22) In addition, all three PA spectra should be shown.

23) In sectin 5.6, I suggest to add one figure showing an optical image
(e.g. Asiago observations) with the slit PA=131 position marked, and the radio-contours 
superimposed. 

24) Finally, the appendix figures are numbered starting from 16, which is not intuitive. I
suggest you mark them either with A.16 or A.1 or simply 1.

- done
